# What is a datastructure

A datastructure is a way of organizing data so that it can be used effectively.

# Why Datastructures?

- They are very essential in creating fast and powerful algorithms.
- They help manage and organize data.
- They make code cleaner and easier to understand.

# Abstract data structure vs data structure

The comparisons between Abstract data structure and data structures will be explained in this section. In the sense that they are both designed to carry several pieces of data, Abstract data structure and data structure are comparable. Simple values like numbers or texts, as well as more complicated data like Student or Kitchen objects, could be used. ADT is different in that it specifies the functionality it does but does not provide any implementation. Because it has the concept of a data structure without having to implement it, ADT is an abstract concept. A data structure, on the other hand, is a concrete representation of the data that describes how it is stored as well as how the algorithms for various data operations are implemented.

An ADT implements its methods using a data structure (for storing, retrieving and manipulating data). The most typical data structures used to implement ADT methods are arrays and linked lists.

In computer science, there are several abstract data structures and data structure definitions. 
- The following are examples of abstract data type: Stacks, priority queues, lists, queues 
- as well as some data structures: arrays, doubly linked list, hash tables, binary search trees, linked list


# Complexity analysis

# Big O notation

# Big O properties